This Explains Everything	 Crick and Watson discovery of DNA. Elegant solution. Lives in La Jolla, Salk Institute. Attempts to conquer second biggest mystery of human biology - consciousness. Philisophical question of what is consciousness is irrelevant, just like the answer of what is life did not come first. Crick and Christoff Cauf (sp?) and the layer in the brain called khromstraugh (sp?). Consciousness can be explained through the existence of neurons, so therefore single celled creatures such as bacteria have no consciousness and they simply react. Hiesenberg’s uncertainty principle and how there is no absolute. Linguistics restricts the domain of truth because language is constraining. Quantum world versus the real world. 

Overlapping Distributions, Incognito	 Many conflicting motivations in a humans action. Machine do not conflict with their actions. They simply carry out. Reason why marriages fail, diets fail, going back on word. Overlapping distributions in areas of decision making. Some instances of people who lack communication between the two lobes show two separate outcomes - drawing a sphere vs triangle. I must be a machine and stick to my diet. Two forms of conflicting memories. Hippocampus regulates normal memory. Amygdala for emotional hijacking. Flashbacks for rape victims and post traumatic stress victims. 

Bounded Rationality	 Human capacity for information and understanding is limited. Cannot fathom entire scope of true. This explains the inconsistencies of our consciousness, and the mysteries of of the human mind. 

Swarm Intelligence	 Ants have individual algorithms to carry out instructions. One or two alone is worthless to observe. Colony of ants bound together to carry out tasks that no single ant can do. Each ant has it’s own localized algorithms for what it does when it finds food, approaches another ant’s pheromone path, and does not see the bigger picture other than it’s individual tasks. 

Commitment	 Cesar burning the ships for his troops, Odysseus tying himself up onto his ship. Economic principle of more choices is better is false. 

Language and Natural Selection	 Language shapes natural selection. The evolution of the human brain goes like this. Brain takes sensory and motor input. Brain ties the two together. Brain runs simulations to situations instead of purely reacting. Brain creates a language hierarchy in which the past, present, and future can be expressed. Typical disney portrayal of language is “you Jane, me Tarzan”. This shows the essence of language as a form of communication for essential needs. “Prototypical language”. To collaborate on a greater scale and to organize, the human brain must adapt to be able to comprehend various tenses and abstract ideas. This is how theoretical mathematics came about. 

Tit and Tots	 Talks about the prisoners dilemma. Selfishness always wins, by defecting. If both defect however, it is a net loss. Milanry and his fish experiment, where fish were placed in a tank with 4 scenarios that include mirrors and predatorial areas. It was shown that collaboration made the fish more likely to venture into the danger zone, which expresses the idea that in nature, collaboration typically wins out over selfishness. 
